[Music]
yep your brain will grow by roughly two
percent if you venture into space
under normal gravity it is thought that
fluid in the brain
naturally moves downwards when we stand
upright
but there is evidence that lack of
gravity prevents this
which is why fluid accumulates in the
brain and skull
while a bunch of flowers may be fragrant
for you there are people with caccosmia
who would beg to differ
they perceive all the smells out there
as something odorous
well that stinks speaking of which out
of
all the senses we have smell is the most
acute one
we remember sixty-five percent of smells
after a year
but only fifty percent of what we've
seen over the last three weeks
we also get a new nose every 28 days
because the nose cells are renewed every
four weeks
we don't smell when we sleep well of
course unless you haven't bathed in a
while
your sense of smell goes to sleep when
you do which is why it's
almost impossible to notice a gas leak
at night
while sleeping we rely only on sound
because the sleep can be disrupted by
noise
almost half of your taste buds will have
gone away by the time you turn 60.
so maybe you will finally start eating
those broccoli
your sense of smell gets less acute as
you get older as well
as for taste again we mostly rely on our
smell
since it helps us perceive up to 95 of
the flavor
without the sense of smell it'd be hard
to tell an apple from a turnip
now when you cough you release the air
at about 60 miles per hour
so mine the speed limit hiccups is a
two-step process
first you draw in a lot of air because
of a muscle spasm
and then bang the airways are closed the
air is blocked
and the famous sound goes outside
we need ears not only for hearing but
for balance too
our vestibular system occupies the inner
ear
canals in your inner ear contain fluid
and tiny sensors
helping you keep the balance by the way
ears have
bones these are also the only bones that
never grow
we can hear thanks to these little guys
since they transmit
sound vibrations doctors call them
oscular chain
and it's made up of malleus incus and
stapes
nicknamed hammer anvil and stirrup which
are integral parts of the middle ear
our ears keep growing throughout our
lives they sweat too
and earwax is actually a kind of sweat
they produce
oh by the way the nose never stops
growing either
perhaps from all the lies
your heart is the only muscle that never
gets tired
the aorta is massive its diameter is
almost as large as a hose in your garden
all the bones in our body are connected
to each other
except for the hyoid which doesn't
articulate with the other bones
this bone serves as support to your
tongue and it's one of the rarest bones
to break
if you have red eyes in a photo blame it
on bouncing light
the flash jumps off the capillaries in
your retina creating that effect
as her eyes the coolest camera so far
has 200 megapixels
the human eye has 576
that's why sunsets are so much better in
real life than in photos
a roller coaster actually tosses your
organs around
when you feel like your stomach's
falling down it's really flipping inside
your body
lips are much more sensitive than
fingers having around a million nerve
endings
they are 100 times as sensitive as the
tips of the fingers
grooves and furrows make our lip print
unique just like fingerprints are
they also remain unchanged throughout
our life oh
the tongue print is unique too by the
way
even though all the people on earth have
an absolutely unique smell
identical twins smell exactly the same
it must be because they have identical
jeans
usually we shed about 50 to 150 hairs a
day
an average lifespan for hair is 5 years
and as soon as an old hair says goodbye
to your scalp
a new one starts growing immediately in
your body you carry enough bacteria to
fill a can
bacteria makes about three to five
pounds of your weight
representing two percent of your total
weight still most of them
are the waste that our body has
a human being has about twenty thousand
to twenty five thousand
genes seems impressive right well
corn flakes have more genes than we do
luckily it's about sophistication not
the quantity
anyway corn flakes one human zero
we consist of many chemical elements
including iron
the iron in our bodies is enough to
produce three nails
each one inch long the carbon that we
have can be used for 900 pencils
our feathers can be used to make quill
pens
wait that's birds never mind our liver
has a superpower of regenerating
if part of it was removed it can grow
back to the size that your body needs
fat helps our bodies consume vitamins
such vitamins as
a d k and e can be properly absorbed
only when fat dissolve our bodies have
enough fat to produce
seven bars of soap don't try this at
home
when we're awake our brain may produce
enough energy to turn
an electric bulb on it has 10 watts of
power
what's that about our belly buttons have
an
entire animal encyclopedia in them with
a range of about 70 different bacteria
some of them can be also found in the
soil of japan
and even in polar ice caps
our bodies actually glow anyway we can't
see that with an unaided eye
because the light we emit is one
thousand times less intense than the
minimum level we can perceive
speaking of which carmine used blushes
and lipsticks
is red dye made up of ground up beetles
saliva helps to taste food our taste
buds are ready to perceive it
only when it's dissolved by saliva
an eyelash is here to stay for 150 days
only
the world eyelash record was about three
inches long
they're also home for tiny mites we
blink about
four million two hundred thousand times
a year at least once every eight seconds
could be cool if we were given a cent
every time we blinked
we could make more than one hundred
dollars daily
it may sound crazy but our bones are
stronger than lots of building materials
a cubic inch of human bone can bear
about 19
000 pounds making it four times stronger
than concrete
the only thing that makes our blood type
different is
sugar a b and a b types have sugars
while o has none which makes it perfect
for donors
no sugar doesn't make o-type less sweet
in fact
it attracts mosquitoes even more than
the other blood types
people have only eight blood types while
cows have
800 and possibly more like what
moo positive and moo negative our
fingernails grow
way faster than toenails they grow
almost four times slower
because they have less damage than
fingernails even though we stumble on
them often
sudden circulation bursts usually don't
last long
nails don't only help us catch random
tiny objects and
peel the stickers off if you didn't have
a rigid structure against which to press
you wouldn't be able to judge how firmly
to hold anything
very few people can actually digest milk
the thing is
there's some special enzyme let's call
it a little helper
that breaks down the sugars any milk has
when people grow up they run out of this
enzyme
this sugar is called lactose so adults
that can't digest it
are lactose intolerant 68
of the world's population can actually
digest
milk if you're sleeping it doesn't mean
your whole body rests
in fact sometimes your brain has to work
even harder when you're asleep
it needs to process tons of information
and reports
usually take a lot of time humans can't
multitask
really we need time to switch from one
task to another
but if we try to tackle several things
at the same time
it's not going to be very productive try
this one
lift your right foot and start rotating
it in a clockwise direction
try to write the number six with your
big toe in the air
now check the direction your foot's
moving it's moving in the opposite
direction
because to write the number six you need
to make a counterclockwise movement
it actually takes a bit longer to start
a new habit
it's not 100 percent true that 18 or 21
days are enough
as many people think the process of
getting new habit
can take up to 254 days but on
average it takes around 66 days for a
new habit to become automatic